# Solution to [Two Sum II - Input Array Is Sorted](https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum-ii-input-array-is-sorted/description/)

---

## Problem Details
**Platform**: LeetCode  
**Difficulty**: Medium  
**Link**: https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum-ii-input-array-is-sorted/description/

---

## Solution Overview
### General Overview
Given a sorted array of distinct integers and an integer target, return indices of the two numbers such that they add up to the target. You may assume that each input would have exactly one solution, and you may not use the same element twice.

### Detailed Step-by-Step Solution
1. **Step 1**: Initialize two pointers, one at the start of the array and one at the end.
2. **Step 2**: Calculate the sum of the elements at the two pointers.
3. **Step 3**: If the sum is equal to the target, return the indices of the two elements.
4. **Step 4**: If the sum is less than the target, move the left pointer to the right.
5. **Step 5**: If the sum is greater than the target, move the right pointer to the left.

---

## Complexity Analysis
- **Time Complexity**: O(n)
  - *The time complexity is linear because we are traversing the array only once.*
- **Space Complexity**: O(1)
  - *The space complexity is constant because we are not using any extra space.*

---

## Code Implementation
```python
class Solution:
    def twoSum(self, numbers: List[int], target: int) -> List[int]:
        first = 0
        last = len(numbers) - 1
        while first != last:
            if numbers[first] + numbers[last] == target:
                return [first + 1, last + 1]
            elif numbers[first] + numbers[last] < target:
                first += 1
            else:
                last -= 1
```

---

## Test Cases

```
Input: numbers = [2,7,11,15], target = 9
Output: [1,2]

Input: numbers = [1,2,3,4,4,9,56,90], target = 8
Output: [4,5]

Input: numbers = [1,5,6,7,8,11,15], target = 13
Output: [2,4]

Input: numbers = [2,3,4], target = 6
Output: [1,3]

Input: numbers = [-1,0], target = -1
Output: [1,2]
```

---

## Additional Notes
- **Common Pitfalls**: Ensure indices are one-based as required by the problem and it's based on the assumtion that the array is sorted and the target exists.
- **Useful Snippets/Information**: The two-pointer technique is commonly used for problems involving sorted arrays.
- **Related Problems**: Consider similar problems like "Two Sum" and "3Sum" for more practice with sum-related problems on arrays.

