# Solution to [367. Valid Perfect Square](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-perfect-square/)

---

## Problem Details

**Platform**: LeetCode
**Difficulty**: Easy

---

## Solution Overview

### General Overview

The approach is to check if the square root of the given number is an integer. If it is, then the number is a perfect square.

### Detailed Step-by-Step Solution

1. **Step 1**: Calculate the square root of the given number using `num**0.5`.
2. **Step 2**: Convert the square root to an integer and compare it with the original square root value.
3. **Step 3**: If the integer value of the square root is equal to the original square root, return `True`. Otherwise, return `False`.

---

## Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity**: O(1)
  - The calculation of the square root and comparison are constant time operations.
- **Space Complexity**: O(1)
  - No additional space is used apart from a few variables.

---

## Code Implementation

```python
class Solution:
        def isPerfectSquare(self, num: int) -> bool:
                return int(num**0.5) == num**0.5
```

---

## Test Cases

```python
# Test case 1
parameters = 16
Output = True

# Test case 2
parameters = 14
Output = False
```

---

## Alternative Solutions

### Alternative 1: Binary Search

- Use binary search to find if there exists an integer `x` such that `x*x == num`.
- **Complexity**: O(log n) Time | O(1) Space
- Pros: More efficient for larger numbers.
- Cons: More complex to implement compared to the simple square root check.

---

## Additional Notes

- **Common Pitfalls**: Ensure to handle edge cases like `num = 0` and `num = 1`.
- **Useful Snippets/Information**: The `math.isqrt` function in Python can be used for integer square root calculations but the question specifcaly asks for a solution without using built-in functions.
- **Related Problems**:
  - [69. Sqrt(x)](https://leetcode.com/problems/sqrtx/)
  - [441. Arranging Coins](https://leetcode.com/problems/arranging-coins/)
